The elements that comprise everything we see around us didn’t exist before the formation of the first stars. Knowledge of the first stars is not just important for understanding our cosmic origins; it is crucial in understanding the formation of galaxies throughout cosmic time, and the evolution of the early universe as a whole. The difficulty is, even when we look deep into space, all the first stars are either too faint or already dead, so studying them observationally is not currently possible. The only connection we have to them are the clues they’ve imprinted on the second generation of stars, by enriching them with metals from their supernovae (SNe). However, the details of how subsequent generations become chemically enriched are not well understood. Since the observed descendants of the first stars may be enriched by multiple progenitors, it is often impossible to infer precise progenitor masses and metal yields. This proposal address this problem using two sets of numerical simulations to identify quantitative connections between theoretical first-generation stars and their metal-poor descendants. Each project studies different enrichment scenarios, which together will give a more complete understanding of the first stars in the universe.

First, we will simulate a star formation scenario where second-generation stars are enriched with the elements from a single progenitor. This may be accomplished through supernova-induced star formation where a shock front crushes a prestellar cloud into gravitational collapse. By varying the mass of the progenitor, the mass of the cloud, and the distance between the two, we will determine the conditions necessary for this process to occur in the early universe. These simulations will provide a direct link between an individual first-generation star and its descendants. With future observations of metal-poor stars formed by this mechanism, our models will enable predictions of the mass and metal yields of the progenitor. This formation mechanism can eliminate difficulties associated with multi-progenitor enrichment when it comes to inferring properties of the first stars. 

Second, we will simulate a more likely scenario of metal-poor star formation with chemical enrichment from multiple progenitors. Using cosmological simulations, we will form many first-generation stars in realistic environments. Unlike any similar simulations, we will track the metals produced by each first-generation star and follow these elements as they collapse into the cores of second-generation protostars. With this new approach, we will determine exactly how many progenitors seed the second-generation stars, and the fraction of metals coming from each progenitor. By testing a variety of different stellar mass distrubutions, and comparing the properties of simulated metal-poor stars with their observational counterparts, we will better constrain the true mass distribution of the first stars. We will also model multiple supernovae explosion mechanisms to study how these affect the enrichment process. 

Ultimately, this work will provide a deeper understanding of the transition away from a metal-free universe, and allow us to constrain the masses, metal yields, and distribution of the first stars. This work will provide useful predictions for NASA's upcoming missions with the James Webb Space Telescope (JWST). JWST will be able to peer deep into the young universe and observe the formation environments of the second-generation stars. Our simulations will not only help guide these missions and aid in the interpretation of the JWST data, but they also will allow us to predict how young stellar nurseries are chemically enriched by the first stars in the universe.



This proposal has three primary objectives:

1) Identify the conditions necessary for triggered star formation to produce metal-poor stars. This supernova-induced star formation scenario is unique and useful for understanding the first stars because if a 

